---
title: "Configuring Cerebellum"
sidebar-position: 1
---

# Configuring Cerebellum

When creating a new instance of Cerebellum, you can pass in an options object to customize the behavior of the Cerebellum instance. Below is a detailed explanation of the available options and their descriptions.

```TypeScript
const CerebellumOptions = {
  autoConnect: true,
  API_KEY: "SAMPLE_API_KEY",
  authRoute: {
    endpoint: "http://localhost:3000/login",
    method: "POST",
    payload: {},
 },
  reconnection: true,
  reconnectionAttempts: 5,
  reconnectionDelay: 5000,
  reconnectionDelayMax: 5000,
  timeout: 20000,
};
```

## `autoConnect`

```typescript
autoConnect: boolean;
```

Determines whether the `CerebellumInit` instance should automatically connect to the Cerebellum server.

- If `true`:
    - The instance will first check if an `API_KEY` is provided. If an `API_KEY` is present, it will create a token using this key before establishing the WebSocket connection.
    - If the `API_KEY` is not provided, the `authRoute` information will be used to retrieve a token signed by the `API_KEY`. After obtaining the token from the auth server, `CerebellumInit` will attempt to establish a WebSocket connection.
    - This approach avoids storing the `API_KEY` directly.
- If `false`, the instance will not automatically connect.

Note: If both `API_KEY` and `authRoute` are provided, `API_KEY` takes precedence.

---

## `API_KEY`

```typescript
API_KEY: string;
```

The API key for authentication. This key is used to create a token on the front end, which is then sent to the Cerebellum servers for authentication.

If the `API_KEY` is provided, then a token using the provided `API_KEY` will be created automatically.

For local development and testing, you can use the following, when using the cerebellum development server/image

```TypeScript
API_KEY: "SAMPLE_API_KEY";
```

In production environments, ensure that this key is kept secure and not exposed in client-side code. We strongly recommend using the `authRoute` if the `autoConnect` is set to `true`, or using the provided authentication methods discussed in the [Authentication](##authentication) section.

---

## `authRoute`

```typescript
authRoute: {
  endpoint: string;
  method: "POST" | "GET";
  payload?: object;
}
```

An object containing details for an authentication route. Used if `autoConnect` is `true` and `API_KEY` is not provided, else it is ignored.

When autoconnect is `true`, and `API_KEY` is not provided, cerebellum will attempt to make an HTTP request to the `endpoint` using the `method` provided and include the `payload` in the request.

It expects to receive a response with a JSON web token in the following format. You can use the `createToken` from the `@cerebellum/sdk` to create a token on your authentication server.

- **`endpoint`**:
  - **Type**: `string`
  - **Description**: The endpoint from which to receive the Cerebellum token.
- **`method`**:
  - **Type**: `"POST" | "GET"`
  - **Description**: The HTTP method to use when requesting the Cerebellum token.
- **`payload`**:
  - **Type**: `object`
  - **Description**: An optional payload to send to the endpoint.

---

## `reconnection`

```typescript
reconnection: boolean;
```

---

Enables automatic reconnection attempts if the connection to the server is lost.

## `reconnectionAttempts`

```typescript
reconnectionAttempts: number;
```

The number of reconnection attempts to make before giving up.

---

## `reconnectionDelay`

```typescript
reconnectionDelay: number;
```

The delay (in milliseconds) between reconnection attempts.

---

## `reconnectionDelayMax`

```typescript
reconnectionDelayMax: number;
```

The maximum delay (in milliseconds) between reconnection attempts.

---

## `timeout`

```typescript
timeout: number;
```

The timeout (in milliseconds) before a connection attempt is considered failed.
