---
title: "React Hooks"
sidebar_position: 3
---

# React Hooks

Cerebellum provides a set of custom hooks that simplify interaction with the Cerebellum instance. These hooks handle connections to channels and presence management. The hooks available are:

- `useChannel`
- `usePresence`

For most users, the hooks mentioned above will be sufficient for their needs. However, if you require more advanced control over the Cerebellum instance, you can use the `useCerebellum` hook to access the Cerebellum instance directly. Allowing access to all of the methods and properties listed in the [Methods](##methods) section and properties listed in the [Properties](##properties) section.

## `useChannel`

```typescript
const {publish, channelName} = useChannel(channelName: string, callback?: (message: Message) => any): Channel
```

**Description**

Subscribes to a specific channel and returns a `publish` function that can be used to publish messages to the channel, and a `channelName` that represents the name of the channel. If a callback function is provided, it will be invoked when a new message is received in the channel.

Note, that all messages including those sent by the current sender will be received by the callback function.

**Arguments**

- `channelName`: string 
  - **Description**: The name of the channel to subscribe to and publish messages on. 
  - `callback?: (message: Message) => any` 
  - **Description**: An optional callback function that will be executed when a new message is received. The function receives a `Message` object.
- **Callback Argument**: `message: Message` 
  - **Description**: The callback function receives a `Message` object containing details of the new message. 
  -  The `Message` interface is defined as follows:

      ```typescript
      interface Message {
      content: any;
      createdAt: string;
      socketId: string;
      } 
      ```
      
**Return Type** 
    - `channelName`: string 
    - `publish`: (message: any) => void 
      -  **Description**: The `publish` takes an argument and sends it to the current channel.


**Example**

```typescript
import { useChannel } from "@cerebellum/sdk";

const MyComponent = () => {
  const [messages, setMessages] = useState([]);
  const [messageField, setMessageField] = useState("");
  const { channelName, publish } = useChannel("general", (message) => {
    setMessages((prevMessages) => [...prevMessages, message]);
  });
};

const sendMessage = () => {
  publish(messageField);
  setMessageField("");
};

return (
  <div>
    <h1>Messages</h1>
    <ul>
      {messages.map((message) => (
        <li key={message.createdAt}>{message.content}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
    <input
      type="text"
      placeholder="Enter a message"
      onChange={(event) => {
        setMessageField(event.target.value);
      }} 
    />
    <button onClick={sendMessage}>Publish Message</button>
  </div>
);
```

**Explanation**

In this example, the `useChannel` hook is imported from the Cerebellum SDK. It is used to subscribe to the "general" channel and publish messages to it. Every time a message is received by the channel, the `onMessage` callback function is executed with the received message as an argument. Lastly, the `sendMessage` function is invoked, a new message is sent to the cerebellum servers to be published to the channel.

## `usePresence`

**Arguments**

- **`channelName: string`**

  - **Description**: The name of the channel to subscribe to presence events for.
  - **`initialUserInfo: NewState`**
    - **Description**: An object representing the initial presence information for the user. This is the information that the user will send to be entered into the presence set.
    - Note that the `NewState` interface is defined as follows. That the values of a state object are always strings.

  ```typescript
  interface NewState {
    [key: string]: string;
  }
  ```

  - **Return Type**

- **`presenceData: []State`**
  - **Description**: This will be an array of `State` objects representing the state of the current users in the presenece set.
  - An example of the `State` interface is defined as follows:
  ```typescript
  interface State {
    [key: string]: string;
    socketId: string;
  }
  ```
  - Note that a unique `socketId` for each user will be included for each user in the presence set.
- **`updateStatus: (state: State) => void`**
  - **Description**: A function that can be used to update the presence information for the user. This function takes a `NewState` object as an argument and updates the presence information for the user. Note that the `NewState` interface is defined as follows. The `socketId` of the user does not need to be included in the `NewState` object. It will be automatically taken care of by the Cerebellum SDK. You just need to include the inormation that you want to update.
  - The `NewState` interface is defined as follows. That the values of a state object are always strings.
  ```typescript
  interface NewState {
    [key: string]: string;
  }
  ```

**Example**

```typescript
import { usePresence } from "@cerebellum/sdk";

const MyComponent = () => {
  const [username, setUsername] = useState("alice");
  const { presenceData, updateStatus } = usePresence("status", {
    username,
    status: "online",
  });

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Presence Data</h1>
      <ul>
        {presenceData.map((data) => (
          <li key={data.socketId}>
            {data.username}: {data.status}
          </li>
        ))}
      </ul>
      <p>Status: {presenceData.status}</p>
      <button onClick={() => updateStatus({ status: "offline" })}>
        Update Status
```

**Explanation**

- In this example, `usePresence` is imported from the Cerebellum SDK. It is used to subscribe to the "status" channel. When the `usePresence` hooks is called, the intial state for the user `Alice` is passed as an argument, with the status set to `online`.
- The returned object contains the `presenceData` and `updateStatus` properties.
- The `presenceData` property is an Array of `State` objects representing the current presence information for the users in the channel. It will be automatically updated when a user joins, leaves or updates their presence information.
- The `updateStatus` property is a function that can be used to update the presence information for a user in the channel. You will pass in a `NewState` object as an argument, and the function will update the presence information for the user, also letting everyone else know in the presence set that the user has updated their status.
- When the component unmounts, or if the user is disconnected, the `usePresence` hook will automatically unsubscribe from the presence set, and let everyone know that the user has left the presence set.

---

## `useCerebellum`

The `useCerebellum` hook is used to access the Cerebellum instance directly. This hook can be used to access the Cerebellum instance and its methods directly. It is useful if you need to perform additional operations with the Cerebellum instance, that are not provided by the react hooks. The most comonon use case for this hook is to access the `cerebellum` instance to retrieve the past mesasges for a channel that is using the `useChannel` hook.

```typescript
import { useCerebellum } from "@cerebellum/sdk";

const MyComponent = () => {
  const cerebellum = useCerebellum();
  const [pastMessages, setPastMessages] = useState([]);
  const getPastMessages = async () => {
    const messages = await cerebellum.getPastMessages("general", {
      limit: 10,
      sortDirection: "descending",
    });
    setPastMessages(messages.contents);
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Past Messages</h1>
      <ul>
        {pastMessages.map((message) => (
          <li key={message.createdAt}>{message.content}</li>
        ))}
      </ul>
      <button onClick={getPastMessages}>Get Past Messages</button>);
    </div>
  );
};
```

**Explanation**

- In this example, `useCerebellum` is imported from the Cerebellum SDK. It is used to access the Cerebellum instance directly. When the `useCerebellum` hooks is called, the Cerebellum instance is returned.
- The `getPastMessages` function is used to retrieve the past messages from the "general" channel. It is called when the button is clicked. Once the messages are retrieved, they are displayed in the interface for the user.
